It'll be good.
I swear that first rep I was like,
"Oh, this is my one rep max."
Anyway, but then the camera's on me and
so I thought, "Okay, I'll try and go for
two." Anyway,
we got there.
So, I'll tell you what happens and this
is what I teach for everyone who If you
want to be a good unracker, what we like
to do is wait for them to take a big
breath in
and that's my cue to help him unrack.
Now, this is what Vass is doing the big
silly. He sets up and he takes a breath
from here and then he slides back so
he's already taken his breath. So, I
don't know when he's ready to unrack.
I don't know if you realize that, Vass.
I do. 140 or what?
140 or what?
Let's call IT A TIE.
YES. THE ONLY TIME IN MY LIFE
HOLD ON, BRO. I'VE EVER been the same as
Vass. Shut up.
SO, LOOK WHO'S BACK. I'M HERE WITH BIG
VASS. WELL, is it Big Vass anymore?
Can you turn around and show them his
handsome face?
It looks like he's had this makeover,
right? I reckon that's 20 kg weight
loss. Look at his skin is glowing. I
thought he had like porcelain veneers or
something.
Look at him.
Yeah, this is not Big Vass, it's Medium
Vass. So, we're going to be training
with Medium Vass and I'm going to take
advantage of being almost as strong as
Vass for once in my life.
Um because he's Yeah, 20 kg lighter. Why
are you 20 kg lighter, Vass?
Just wanted to be healthier.
Woah. What were you eating at 165 kg?
Prior to that, I was eating
three pizzas for breakfast and then
three pizzas and three sides, which is
like 35 bucks on Domino's. It sounds
like he's making a joke by saying he
eats so many pizzas a day, but Yeah, so
they he's not joking. There's There's
pizza There's these pizza breakfast
There's things called manoushe. I used
to eat three of them for breakfast.
And then Domino's had a deal where you
could order three pizzas and three sides
for like 20
All right, so that's not recommended,
right, Vass?
So, that's you know, that's an extreme
measure that Vass was doing like just
before competition to add on, you know,
like 10 kg in a very short amount of
time.
Um but that's not what we recommend and
as soon as the competition was over, we
just went straight on a diet. How many
calories are you on now? 3,200. That's
as much as me. I weigh 100 kg. And how
do you How much do you weigh now? I
weigh just over 140. So, he's he's
dropped more than 20 like close to 25
kg.
25 kg, yeah. Um so, I'll tell you now,
unfortunately,
uh that's going to take a hit to your
strength, which we're going to see
today, but I don't care because Vass
knows, I hope, that he's going to build
his strength back real quickly um and
his health comes first. Uh and that's a
big message for everyone at home. So,
strength is really cool, uh but it's a
slippery slope. What's it called? Eat
big, lift big mentality. You know, yeah,
okay, if it's like a competition that
you it's really important to you and you
want to hit a goal, but that comes at
the expense of health and it's
not what we really recommend. But
anyway, week one, of course, it's bench
press day because that's the most
important lift
in the gym.
And uh we're going to be benching and
I'm going to be very close to Vass's
strength, not quite, but almost.
Yep, we'll see what happens.
So, we're starting with 3 by 5. I think
I should be at about 170 kg, which is
decent.
I would be over 185. 185 kg. So,
So, I guess, you know, the goal is to
set ourselves up. So, this is our
program and principles. Start
conservative to allow room to be able to
add weight to the bar every week. I look
at I say, "3 by 5 on 200 is something
that he should be able to do soon." So,
let's do that on week four. So, 185 on
week one, 190, 195 and then on week
four, we're getting back to 200 kg. So,
it'll be good to see
if today's hard or not for you. I don't
know. Yeah, we'll see what happens.
It'll get hard.
Vass gets a lot harder now that he's uh
Medium Vass.
Yeah, Medium Vass, Medium Vass
everywhere. Have a look at this. This is
self unrack. When he unracks himself
with a lighter weight, he does really,
really nice technique. But then I get as
it gets heavier and heavier,
to unrack a heavy weight by yourself,
it's very hard to maintain the right
position you need.
What is that right position that we
need? It's pinning the shoulder blades
back and down. So, what happens is a lot
of people get themselves out of
position. You kind of
protract your scapulas to unrack a
really, really heavy weight, which is
something you shouldn't really do. It's
a natural human movement, but the
problem with that is
when you protract your shoulder blades,
when you're trying to bring the barbell
to your chest with a really heavy
weight,
because you're laying on a bench, it
stops you from pulling your shoulders
back. So, you end up with the bar on the
chest with the shoulders out of
position. So, the idea is to maintain
your shoulders back with the unrack so
that you can stay in position when the
bar's on the chest, right? So, Vass our
very strong odd hours trains a lot by
himself. Doesn't really have someone to
unrack for him. So, every time I'm
working with him, he picks up that habit
again because he trains so much by
himself heavy weights of protracting the
unrack.
And every time we come together, it's
like that's my number one piece of
feedback is we got to maintain that
retraction.
So, he doesn't need me to unrack that.
Uh the reason why I'm unracking is for
him to familiarize
with allowing me to take a lot of that
weight so that he can focus on keeping
his shoulder blades back. So, that's why
I'm unracking for that. Like this guy
What's the heaviest you've benched with
your self unracking?
Ooh. Probably like 260.
No, more.
Just Yeah, 260, 270, yeah.
All right, so he can do a lot, but the
thing is it's enforcing bad habits.
So, that's my goal is to
So, whenever I'm trying to teach you
technique, um I I warm up with that new
technique so that we don't have to think
too much about it when the weight gets
heavy. So, that's the idea. Easy for
him, but I'm still unracking for him
just to to master the technique.
One rep, 165.
Good.
So, I'll tell you what happens and this
is what I teach for everyone who If you
want to be a good unracker, what we like
to do is wait for them to take a big
breath in
and that's my cue to help him unrack.
Now, this is what Vass is doing the big
silly. He sets up and he takes a breath
from here and then he slides back so
he's already taken his breath. So, I
don't know when he's ready to unrack. I
don't know if you realize that, Vass. I
do. Yeah, so I'm sitting there going,
"Okay, well, he can't take another
breath cuz he's had his breath." He's
just trying to make me guess now. So,
I'm like, "Fuck it, I'll just go when I
feel."
But the next one, that's a cue for you
guys. So, and I'll tell you why because
an alternative to that that I see a lot
of people do is they go, "One, two,
three, up." So, they're exhaling.
I want you to not have exhaled. I want
you to have full inhale.
So, the inhale is paired with all of the
actions that I want with your shoulders,
which is
uh expanded rib cage and shoulder blades
back and down. And when you exhale,
it does the opposite of that. So, that's
why it's important to unrack with a full
belly of air.
And no no more exhale. So, that's why um
for a good spotter, it's good to
understand who your spotter is and and
familiarize yourself with each other.
So, so, bad Vass.
You suck.
Naughty.
You suck. I can tell him that now that
he's medium.
He can't do anything about it. He can't
do anything about it. He's weak and
frail. Um
Yeah, so that's what he'll fix on the
next one.
Um and uh yeah, that was the last
warm-up set. And I got my last warm-up
set as well, so we'll see how it goes.
See, watch me. You ready? Ready? I'll
talk you through it. So, I'm breathing
now, breathing now. Pull my shoulder
blades back in position. Okay, now that
he's up here, you ready?
I hit the bench, but it did. Did you
hear me breathing and all that stuff?
So, that was my cue
to have have Vass unrack me.
See, good job, Vass.
Yes.
So good.
That's what I'm going to do.
What I might do as well Take your
clothes off. I'm going to record Take
your clothes off. for my
for my Insta as well. Where is my phone?
Take your clothes off.
You heard me, Alex.
Boy.
All right, let's go, Vass.
Alex, can you hear me?
Look.
Try to make me feel good about myself.
Five reps.
Breathing, breathing, breathing,
breathing.
Good. Now, breathe out. Set up the
breath.
Shoulders back hard. Let's go, five
reps.
All right.
Good.
Damn.
That's the hardest 185
ever seen from Vass. You know, under
normal circumstances, if you go to a gym
and see someone doing that, you'd be
like,
you know, what the hell is actually
going on?
Uh but it's a funny thing here with
Vass. When he does this, we get the
disappointed look.
Yeah.
Uh no, but honestly, okay, seriously,
that was the idea of today's session.
Watch this space. 185 for five. Uh
Horrible. Let's see what happens with
Vass when he gets serious. So, he's
going to be going off the 3,200 calorie
deficit. We put him in a bit of a
surplus now, and we're going to put some
structure into his training. And the
idea is to add 5 kilos each week for the
next 4 weeks. Let's see what we do.
Cool.
Nice.
Oof. Damn, that was smooth.
It looked good. Yeah, it looked good. I
swear, that first rep I was like,
"Ah, this is my one rep max." Damn, it
looked good. Anyway, I then realized the
camera's on me, and so I thought, "Okay,
I'll try and go for two." Anyway,
we got there.
Yeah. So, this is all the starting point
it looks like, huh? Yeah.
Uh
after set one, any particular
adjustments? Look, to be honest with you
at this point, and this is a tip for
coaches, um when we're at the top set,
we kind of don't really want to change
much at that point. Um
obviously, it was harder than he's ever
done 185, but that was kind of expected.
He hasn't been lifting heavy for months,
and he's lost 20 kg as well. So, it's
still pretty good. Let's give the little
guy a break.
Um so, any feedback from that? No, same
thing again. Um I'll say, if I'm really
nitpicking, the whole shoulder blade
forward thing, it's still happening
slightly. Um you know, he's not a bad
person because that's actually a natural
action. Like, when you push your arm
forward, the shoulder blade should come
forward. So, it takes coordination to
keep them pinned back.
Um so,
it's still happening very slightly, but
it's pretty good.
I'm trying.
Hold it faster.
Let's go back. Come on.
Breathing, breathing, breathing.
Get the back hard. Good.
Pause.
Let's go. Back towards me. Good. Good.
Jesus.
What the [__] is happening to me?
That was a tough set.
I'm trying.
Nice.
I know. That's the key. Uh but that's
okay. So, two sets of five, that was the
plan, wasn't it? Two sets.
100%. And then we're going to go do some
accessories now.
Uh
the limelight. This is literally the
limelight. Uh so, what I'll do,
um so, I get this right? So, first
exercise is horizontal push this with a
barbell. So, one of the bad things about
barbell with an arch is short range of
motion. So, what do we want to do is
strengthen the joint angles and ranges
of motion that we've neglected in the
main movement. So, what are those? So,
it's like the full stretch position cuz
the barbell on the chest. So, that's why
we go dumbbell so we can go a greater
range of motion. Uh and then the next
one is the vertical plane. So, we did
hor- horizontal push plane. Now, we're
going to do vertical plane,
um which means we have a very balanced
approach to all of our pushing muscles.
Um so, therefore, really, really nice,
especially further away from
competition, um to to pair your bench
press, so horizontal push, with a
vertical push plane. So, today we do
seated dumbbell shoulder press.
I like, you know, anywhere between eight
to 12 rep range, but because we're
powerlifters, we're going to go to the
lower end of that. Um what do you say,
Vassa? Eight? Sure. What do you think is
a good weight for eight for
Whatever you do. Okay. Well, I know
Vassa will will kind of match me and
plus one me, but that's okay.
Yeah.
We'll see.
We'll see. I
I've never like how can you do it that
high? Don't make excuses.
No, cuz it's a seated. He's already
making excuses.
But that's really hard.
Sometimes I go higher for the seated.
And you still do neutral?
Eight. And you still do neutral? Yeah.
Well, it's okay. Let's choose whatever
angle you like. So, let's just do a
quick warm-up. So, we'll just go 35. So,
a warm-up, obviously we're warm, so it's
not a warm-up. It's just familiarizing
ourselves with the different angle.
Oh.
Thank you.
Friends.
Damn, I don't think I've ever kicked
this high.
Uh just five reps just to feel it.
He's not checking your form.
He's checking the facials. Yeah. He's
handsome, Vassa.
Very, very, very close. Look how
handsome he is. His complexion.
All right. So, what are we going to do
now is we're going to pair push with
pull. So, a lot of the times when I
program for people, I'll do the first
exercise, so bench press with a pull
variation. Um but then there's some
exceptions, and the exceptions are when
you're kind of like pressing something
pretty heavy, I want a complete
recovery. So, when you do a push and
pull combined, it's non-overlapping
muscles. So, technically, it's not for
using the same muscles, so therefore,
it's not fatiguing. But there's still
central fatigue that occurs, and I want
no energy leakage with our first
exercise, which is bench press.
But now that it's a secondary exercise,
we can afford to pair our seated
dumbbell shoulder press with a pull
pattern. Uh and I love a lat pulldown,
so
that's what we're going to do.
You going to have a pause as well? I'm
going to have Well, technically, UH THAT
WAS VASSA.
I THOUGHT YOU ASKED ME IF I WAS GOING TO
HAVE A PULL as well as my pull.
Can you zoom in on the muscles?
Does it make it look bigger or still
not?
Yeah, I like that.
Thank you for
Thank you for noticing. Am I just on the
same weight?
Yeah, thanks. Am I just on the same
weight? Thanks. Check it. Check it.
I may as well. So, this is a
warm-up-ish.
I'm on.
What sort of difficult you
think for
with the lat pulldown? Are you pushing
these to the same sort of level as your
pressing? Never really. It's kind of
like not the same type of thing, right?
So, with your pressing, it's a different
type of an exercise where you can push
till you grind and still maintain good
technique. But when you pull till you
grind,
it's one of those ones that you just
can't really do it with really good
technique. You kind of end up doing all
of these things, and you're not
targeting the same muscles. So,
um that's why I'll typ- typically like
to leave a little bit more reps in
reserve for a lat pulldown compared to a
bench press, uh and I love a lat
pulldown. Like, we just did fives on a
bench press. I never do fives on a lat
pulldown. Seriously, I never do fives on
a lat pulldown.
Seriously, think about the practicality.
When you do fives on a lat pulldown,
what does the technique look like if
you're doing a true five RM? You're
probably not going to be doing very good
technique. So, the idea of this isn't so
we can be the best at lat pulldowns. The
idea of this is so that we can build our
lats and our upper back muscles.
So, with a bench press, the goal isn't
to build pecs. The goal is to be really
good at bench press. So, that's why it's
a slightly different focus with these
exercises, but right now, this is muscle
focused. Our bench press is movement
focused.
What do you have to say to that?
So good. Yes.
Movement.
Nice.
Check it out. Check it out.
I did some I did some worse than that.
Let's see. Let's hope he tries our first
set. Maybe. He won't let me get away
with his grace.
Okay, we're going to ask him some
questions as soon as he puts the
Watch me. Let's go.
I'm not going to say this, but my cardio
has improved.
Let's go.
Six. Seven, remember I told you
you're going to beat me with 01.
Sure.
That by two. Oh, look at this
overachiever. Told you, man. Yeah. All
right. So, I'll tell you what happens
now. Just give him 10 seconds because
it takes about 10 seconds
for the heart rate to adjust. Now, let's
kicking in. Now, let's ask him some
questions. ASK AWAY.
HONESTLY, MY MY RECOVERY IS actually
really good now. Like, it's surprising.
I can catch my breath a lot easier.
I'm still NOT AS BAD
NOT AS BAD AS IT WAS WHAT IT WAS.
Just so you know, that microphone is
really close to you.
We can hear your lies. You can probably
probably hear my heart rate. My heart
rate My HEART RATE JUST
I CAN'T YOU
YEAH, I KNOW. IT'S A BIT UM
unfit of me, isn't it?
No.
Can't hear a thing.
That was so quiet. How quiet was that?
15 reps.
Oh, damn. That's a lot.
Now, I'm not going to make any noise.
Mic's right on you.
I need to go and hear that heartbeat.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15 and then one more to beat Vass.
He's so fair.
Come.
Have a look.
I'll warm up the scales for you.
Of course, I got clothes and stuff on.
101.
Well.
101.1? 101 101-ish.
I've got a a bunch of stuff on. I always
say I'm 100 kilos, so that's pretty
accurate.
Who the what? Who the what?
And me.
24.
I want to try and do 10 reps because we
know that Vass has to beat me.
So, I'm going to make him beat me.
Two. Ah, say like I'm some kind of a
strong guy. You are. It's Vass. It'll
still be easy for Vass.
But anyway.
Ready, Vass?
I'll show.
12.
13.
14.
That's why Vass is here.
Is that what you do, Vass?
AH, 11.
12. COME ON.
13.
BRO, 14 or what?
14 or what?
Let's call IT A TIE.
YES. THE ONLY TIME I LAUGHED
HOLD ON, BRO. EVER been the kind of fool
Shut up. HOW DOES IT FEEL?
HEY, VASS. ARE YOU BREATHING HEAVY?
THERE YOU GO. SO, DON'T THINK ABOUT
squeezing here. Think about just that.
Looks good. Internal rotate. Four, good.
Yeah, look at the technique.
Look at the rear delts on the [__]
fella. I wish I had some. Look at the
rear delts on the [__] fella.
You have to zoom in.
Nah, just joking. He's just got too much
of a big over here, bro, for a
medium-sized guy.
But how was that session? Yeah, that was
a good session, actually. Um we kind of
expected it was going to be hard because
it was week one.
However, watch this space. Vass is a
pretty special guy. He's not the
strongest bench in Australia for no
reason. So, although like 185 is
very light for Vass, uh something that
you'll probably see, uh could be
speaking too soon, is very very good
progression. So, next week the goal is
in the next few weeks is for him to go
up by 5 kg. Uh I don't think that I'll
be able to go up at that rate. Um I'll
try, but I I doubt it. But uh that's the
goal, 5 kg for the next 4 weeks, getting
to 200 kg for 5. Um and then we're going
to be doing the same things for the rest
of his lifts. He's got deadlifts and
squats as well. Of course, he's a
powerlifter. Um and he's also, to be
able to do that, he's going on a bit of
a calorie surplus again. So, he's got
now really good eating habits, so he's
not eating pizzas anymore. He's eating
barramundi and stuff.
Unfortunately. And um nah, very good for
his health. Look at how handsome this
fella is. Look at this. Get on him.
Yeah, man. I can look at him. He's got
the jawline happening.
You know, and um anyway, so um
yeah, calorie surplus now. So, he will
So, today 140 what? 142. 142 kg, so he's
just going to slowly slowly put on
weight again. But that's the keyword
now. We've got a long term long time to
prep for competition, so the keyword is
slowly putting weight back on. No more
rapid weight gain. When you you do
rapid, you have to do extreme measures,
which is pizzas, and it's just not
healthy. So, we're doing it a healthy
way.
Uh watch this space. And so, week one,
185 kilos, where do you see the last
week of this prep going? Is the goal PB
285 kilos, 290 kilos? I think I I think
this far out, the goal that me and Vass
discussed was just to be healthier.
Look after the heart a bit more, the
liver, the kidneys. Um look after
the lifestyle that I put my kids through
and then all the rest of it, my sleep.
I'm now sleeping without sleep apnea.
Uh for the first time
in my life, I'm faster than my kids.
Um which is a really fun thing to do
when they're trying to chase me now as
opposed to being much heavier and
sluggish before.
I kind of really didn't take advantage
of of that lifestyle with with the kids
themselves, so
the goal has been just massive
improvements in life and just in general
health, and that's
where we're starting at, yeah.
not what I want to know.
Thanks. I'll give him the answer. Now,
look, honestly, what a what an important
message that he's sending, but yeah, the
real answer you wanted, his best bench
in competition is 277 and 1/2. So, we
always come in with our comps and try
and chip himself by 2 and 1/2 kg. So,
we're going to be stoked with a 280 kg
in the next comp.
But we're also welcoming more if it's
available, kind of thing. We'll see. But
yeah, health first. I agree. Why not
both? Why not both? Let's do it.
Let's see what happens. All right, guys.
That's our session. Next week we're
going to be back for our progression.
Write in the comment section below if
you want to see anything special from
us. Otherwise, click like, subscribe, do
all that stuff. It helps our channel. If
you want to see more of this stuff,
yeah, write it in the comments below and
we'll see you next week.
See you.